# OAuth Integration Reflection


## CSRF and the state Parameter

A CSRF attack happends when an attacker tries to trick the user into completing some login request that the attacker has created, trying to steal user data. The state parameter is a random string that is generated by the client and sent to the authorization server during the OAuth flow, being a unique secret tied to the user's current session.

If an attacker tries to force the victim to use a malicious OAuth callback, the attacker’s state value will not match the victim’s stored session value. Because of this mismatch, the application rejects the request.

---

## 'Leaky' Redirect URI

A 'leaky' redirect URI is a vulnerability in OAuth where the `redirect_URI` can be manipulated by an attacker to redirect users to a malicious site after authentication. A common mistake made is that the OAuth provider does not properly validate the `redirect_URI` with an exact callback URL.

For example, lets say an application registers this domain with its OAuth provider:

```
https://app.com
```

Instead of an exact callback URL:

```
https://app.com/oauth/callback
```

This would mean that the provider could be accepted and redirect paths like:

``` 
https://app.com/profile
https://app.com/settings
https://app.com/profile/malicious

```
The application could have an open redirect vulnerability if the provider accepts any redirect URI that starts with `https://app.com`, allowing attackers to redirect users to malicious sites after authentication. To prevent this, the application should register an exact callback URL and ensure that the OAuth provider validates the `redirect_URI` against this specific URL.

---

## UX Design for OAuth Flows

When designing the user experience (UX) for OAuth flows, it is important to consider the following: 
**Login with Google**: Using “Login with Google” makes signing in much faster and easier for users because they do not need to create or remember another password. This can improve user experience and increase sign-ups.

However, OAuth flows tend to add alot of security complexity for developers, and if not implemented correctly, can lead to security vulnerabilities. For example, if the state parameter is not used or validated properly, it can lead to CSRF attacks. Additionally, if the redirect URI is not properly validated, it can lead to open redirect_uri vulnerabilities.
